Assessing COA’s Progress Towards a Fossil Fuel Free Campus by 2030
================
by Hunter Kitt, Laila Hammoudeh, Sierra Abrams

## Summary

College of the Atlantic (COA) was ranked the greenest college in the
United States by the Princeton Review for 2024. Current energy projects
at COA include the COA Fossil Fuel Free campus initiative, which
includes campus building efficiency upgrades and new campus solar
projects, and data collection and analysis of on-campus energy and
resource use for COA’s annual sustainability reporting (STARS).1 For our
project we were interested in exploring energy at COA generated by the
burning of fossil fuels and reassessing COA’s goal to be fossil fuel
free by the year 2030 as part of the Energy Framework. The data we used
was collected by David Gibson through the yearly community energy center
analysis and looks at the amount of fuel used by a variety of COA-owned
buildings, on and off-campus along with the cost of the usage of fuel.

For our project, we were interested in looking at four main on-campus
buildings which are: Blair-Tyson residence, Davis Center for
international studies, Seafox residence and Turrets administration
building. We started with processing the master dataset into sub data
that will be useful for the purpose of our project. These changes are
reflected in the new_energy_use dataset.

We started our visualizations with a general bar graph of gallons of
fuel used by all COA-owned buildings with Arts and Science and Gates
having the highest fuel consumption. Then we created a more specific bar
plot showing the usage of fuel by the four buildings we are focusing on
stacked by the type of fuel used: fuel oil, heating oil or liquid
propane. In this graph, it was clear that Blair Tyson had the highest
fuel usage among the four buildings with most of its fuel used being
heating oil.

Next up we graphed total gallons of fuel used throughout the years by
all of the four buildings in a smooth line graph. We also facet-wrapped
this graph by building and got four different smooth line graphs for
each of the buildings. We were able to see that COA is decreasing its
fossil fuel use to generate energy. The line starts to trend downwards
around 2021 suggesting a decrease in fossil fuel usage. Then, we
calculated the CO2 emissions generated from the use of fossil fuels in
energy production for the four buildings and graphed them in a smooth
line chart throughout the years. We also facet-wrapped the CO2 emission
graph by building to observe the progress of each of the buildings. From
this graph we were able to see COA reaching a peak in CO2 emissions then
an immediate trend of decrease.

We then created an animated line graph of CO2 emissions of each of the
buildings facet-wrapped by the type of fuel used throughout the years.
This was the highlight of our project as it illustrates the fluctuations
of CO2 emissions until they start to decrease around 2021. This aligns
with energy efficiency installations in each of these buildings. Seafox
and Davis window dresser installations in October and November of 2022.
Blair Tyson had their heat pump water heater system installed in
November of 2022. And Turrets had its basement insulation installed in
January of 2023.

\#I wrote an intro and summarized my part and graphs, feel free to add
below

Analyzing and comparing the fuel use between years by week is another
good way at showing the reality of uncertainty of Winter in Maine. No
two years in the same building looks exactly the same, due to
differences in weather and storms, when they hit and for how long. How
early winters begin/end, and when they are able to get refuels and
ensure all buildings are able to be heated and used. These variables and
the economics of fossil fuels make any analysis on the cost of fuel
difficult to do and one we ended up avoiding in this project.

For conclusions, arts and science and Gates take are a massive portion
of total fuel use, but some of the other largest and four buildings that
we chose are improving in fuel consumption. Blair Tyson has improved
massively, but all insulation and heat pump installations are having a
visible impact on our fuel usage. We were not the ones who recorded this
data, nor have we done a comprehensive analysis of all on campus
buildings/housing, just samples of large factors. Data for the past 6
months have not yet been added but once they are it will provide the
oppurunity for a full year analysis with much more accurate findings as
to the results of 2030 fossil fuel independence progress. Any new
renovations/installations and data collection will aid in future
analysis, and including other buildings on campus for future work would
be vital in the true progress for 2030 commitments. As heat pumps are
installed and data is collected in off-campus buildings with heat pumps
already, the primary focus will eventually turn to energy consumption
and insulation projects as well.

## Presentation

Our presentation can be found
[here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1t2GxDbUH6NDmP4Pe5QId8575PwLDZYPMa0FtLBfIIRo/edit#slide=id.p).

## Data

Data from David Gibson, Director of Energy, College of the Atlantic,
October 3rd.

Carbon factors provided by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks: 1990-2021, Tables
A19, A-24, A-31, and A-215.

## References

Energy Framework Version 2, Campus Committee for Sustainability, College
of the Atlantic, October 3rd.
